INTRODUCTION

Good <morning/afternoon>. First of all, thank you for participating in this usability session. My name is <Moderator> and I’m going to be walking you through this session today. 

Before we begin, I have some information and questions for you, and I’m going to be reading it to make sure I cover everything.

First, I want to go over why we’re here. We’re asking people to try using a website we’re working on, to see if it works as intended. During this session, I will read some mock scenarios to you and ask you to complete the associated tasks. As you complete these tasks, I’d like you to talk me through what you’re seeing, thinking about, or what you would expect to see. Please be honest with your comments, and please don’t worry about hurting our feelings - our primary goal is to make the website as easy to use as possible.

I may be asking you to complete tasks that we know are difficult or have multiple approaches, and keep in mind that the intent of this is to test the website, not you—you can do no wrong, we just want to know how you’d approach the task normally and please let me know if you hit a point where you would naturally stop. 

If you have any questions as we go along, just ask them. I may not be able to answer them right away, since we’re interested in what people do when they don’t have a person sitting next to them, but I’m happy to answer any questions when we’re done. We have 2 scenarios prepared for today’s session, which will go no later than <time>, but we are not under any pressure to get through all of them and let me know if you need to take a break at any point.

Also, there are a few people from the development team observing this session in another room. (They can’t see us, just the screen). We’ll also be recording this session and that recording will only be seen by the people working on this project. Do we have your permission to record the screen and audio? 

Great, do you have any questions so far?

QUESTIONS

Before we take a look at the site, I’d like to ask you a few quick questions.

Do you purchase over-the-counter medications for yourself or others?

<If yes> How do you purchase OTC medications? Where do you purchase them from?
<If no> Does someone else purchase them for you? And if so, who?

Do you or any of your family members have ingredients in medications you need to avoid for any reason (allergy, religion, interaction with another medication)?

<If yes> Today, how do you make sure a medication does not contain the ingredient?

Ok, great. We’re done with the questions and we can start looking at things.

FIRST IMPRESSIONS

First, I’m going to ask you to look at this page and tell  me what you make of it: what strikes you about it, what you can do here, and what it’s for. Just look around and do a little narrative.

You can scroll if you want to, but don’t click on anything yet.

TASKS

Thanks. Now I’m going to ask you to try doing some specific tasks. I’m going to reach each one out loud and let me know if any time you want me to repeat it. And again, as much as possible, it will help us if you can try to think out loud as you go along.

TASK 1: You feel a headache coming on, but you’re allergic to aspirin. Can you think of a product in your medicine cabinet at home which would help with a headache?

<if no> What are some common products you could buy at the store to help?
<if yes> OK, how would you find out whether <that product> has any aspirin?
<if no to both> OK, let’s say you come across some Advil. How would you find out whether it has any aspirin?

TASK 2: For this next task, you still have that headache. You’ve already had the maximum daily amount of <product from task 1> but it didn’t do the trick. Find out what else you can take to deal with the headache.

CLOSING

Thanks, that was very helpful. Do you have any questions for me, now that we’re done?
